thanks to cutting-edge technologies
astronomers keep learning new exciting
facts about space almost every day
faraway galaxies bizarre spinning stars
mind-boggling planets where it rains
glass how many more surprises does the
universe have for us humans so a day on
Uranus last 17 hours 14 minutes and 24
seconds but since the planet has a tilt
of around 98 degrees a season on this
gas giant last 21 earth years a star 50
light-years away from Earth has 90
percent of its mass crystallized and its
interior is made of carbon that means
the star named Lucy is the biggest
diamond ever found the densest objects
in space are neutron stars they are the
size of a small city yet their mass is
about one-and-a-half times that of our
Sun a single teaspoon of neutron star
material would weigh a billion tons and
the gravity on a neutron star is 2
billion times stronger than the gravity
on our planet
heavy on Earth sound travels to our ears
through vibrating air molecules but in
space the empty areas between stars and
planets are well molecule as' that's why
the sound can't travel and we can't hear
anything
discovered in 2017 Celt 9b is the
hottest planet we know of the
temperatures there can reach seven
thousand eight hundred degrees
Fahrenheit that's because Celt 9b orbits
extremely close to its star
Celt nine its way hotter and bigger than
our Sun experts believe that the giant
star might one day evaporate the entire
planet with its intense even Mars has
two moons Phobos and Deimos
in the next 30 to 50 million years the
planet's gravitational forces will tear
Phobos apart it'll probably result in
the formation of a ring around Mars
Saturn's rings were discovered all at
once it happened gradually
and they were named alphabetically in
the order the scientists found them they
go like this d CB a FG e pronounced depa
fudge I think the moon is the closest
natural satellite to the Sun Mercury and
Venus which are closer to the Sun than
our planet don't have satellites at 4.6
billion years old the Sun is a
middle-aged star it's halfway through
its life and is known as a yellow dwarf
after becoming a senior and burning up
all its fuel the Sun will swell into a
red giant and swallow Mercury Venus and
Earth then it will shrink down and turn
into a white dwarf I won't be around
that good thing too because of the low
gravity small hard dust is all over the
moon
it makes astronauts feel symptoms
similar to hay fever the dust also gets
into spacesuits ruining them but at
sunset and sunrise the dust sort of
dances rather beautifully
electromagnetic forces make the
particles float astronauts only wear
orange spacesuits during the launch and
re-entry of the spaceship the color
stands out and makes it easier to spot
people and rescue on the white suits are
equipped very differently and help
astronauts survive in outer space
speaking of which a spacesuit costs
around twelve million dollars it
protects astronauts from scorching heat
space dust and extreme weather
conditions the helmets even have bell
crow patches to help astronauts out when
their nose is itch there's a plan at 63
light-years away from Earth it's dubbed
a Blue Marble because of its unusual
bright color
scientists believe such a hue may come
from a rain of superhot glass
typical for the planet
in 1993 the Galileo probe was traveling
past a miniature asteroid it was no more
than 20 miles across and still the tiny
thing had a 1 mile wide moon astronomers
have discovered tons of moons orbiting
minor planets in the solar system since
then now you'll always see the same side
of the moon
no matter where you are on earth that's
because the moon orbits around our
planet at the same speed it rotates
around its own axis in 1999 NASA lost a
Mars orbiter because one engineering
team was using the metric system and
another was doing calculations with the
help of the Imperial system the moon is
not an ideal sphere it's shaped more
like an egg because of the Earth's
gravity decades ago astronomers thought
mercury didn't rotate around its axis
they also believe that the same side of
the planet always faced the Sun only in
1965 scientists discovered that the
planet does rotate but at a snail's pace
one rotation takes 57 Earth days when
astronauts go to space they can grow up
to 3% taller the lack of gravity causes
their spines to expand but it doesn't
last long when they get back to earth
and adjust to the gravity here their
bodies shrink back the other side of the
Moon is more mountainous than the one we
see from Earth that can be explained by
the influence of the Earth's gravity it
makes the crust on the moon's visible
side thinner Space Surveillance Network
keeps track of how much space junk
orbits earth and who is responsible for
it there are more than 500,000 rocket
parts and inactive satellites orbiting
our planet at 17,500 miles per hour
you'll have to travel 11 billion miles
away from Earth before reaching the
boundary of the solar system in 2011
astronomers discovered an enormous water
reservoir in space it was floating
around a supermassive black hole called
a quasar floating water vapors aren't
that common in space
this particular reservoir holds around
140 trillion times the amount of water
in all the Earth's oceans it's one of
the oldest and largest vapor clouds
people know about and at more than 12
billion light-years away
it's also the farthest nASA has the
office of planetary protection its
purpose is to secure the solar system
objects from getting polluted by the
Earth's inhabitants the organizations
other task is to protect our planet from
potential danger from space on Mars the
normally pinkish red sunset sky turns
blue as the Sun goes down below the
horizon Mars is much farther away from
the Sun than Earth which makes the
sunlight less intense plus the fine dust
in the Martian atmosphere absorbs the
blue light and scatters those familiar
warm colors you typically see on earth
the International Space Station is the
largest human-made structure that's ever
been to space the thing weighs nine
hundred twenty-five thousand pounds is
also the size of an American football
field Earth isn't the only tectonic Li
active planet in the solar system
astronomers have spotted something that
looks like cliffs on Mercury if it were
true the tectonic activity could explain
the rapid shrinking of the planet the
moon is moving one inch away from Earth
every year it causes the Earth's
rotation to slow down just a little
Pluto's atmosphere rises way higher
above the surface of the dwarf planet
then for example the Earth's atmosphere
it also has more than 20 layers all of
them are super cold and very condensed
small space rocks enter the Earth's
atmosphere all the time
we call them meteorites more than 61,000
stones have been found on our planet
Geronimo's are 100 percent sure that at
least 224 of them have arrived from Mars
in 2011 scientists discovered a small
Martian rock that's a few billion years
old we live in
side the Sun yep the stars atmosphere
stretches way beyond its visible surface
our planet is also within its reach
that's how gusts of solar winds create
such a breathtaking phenomenon as the
northern and southern lights more than
four hundred trees that grow on earth
today
arrive from space in 1971 the Apollo 14
mission took the seeds to the moon's
orbit and then brought them back to
earth almost all the planets in our
solar system have moons orbiting them
yet two planets don't have any its Venus
and Mercury and the only two dwarf
planets without natural satellites are
Ceres and Makemake
our solar system isn't the only one in
the Milky Way galaxy the galaxy we live
in houses about 100 billion solar
systems the moon does have a kind of
atmosphere it's called an exosphere it
consists of helium neon and argon it's
10 trillion times less dense than the
Earth's atmosphere the distance between
the Sun and Earth is known as an
astronomical unit it equals 93 million
miles
there are moon quakes on the moon
they're caused by the Earth's gravity
and their epicenter is several miles
lower than the moon's surface Venus is
about 30 million miles further from the
Sun than mercury but it's way hotter
it's incredible thick atmosphere is 100
times denser than the Earth's it
consists almost entirely of carbon
dioxide also known as the greenhouse gas
these two factors make the temperatures
on the planet rise up to eight hundred
seventy-five degrees hot enough to melt
lead
and the moon's gravitational pull causes
high and low tides on earth the highest
tide can be seen at full or
moe
[Music]